We can also use for loops to loop or iterate over a string or an array.
We still generate numbers but we generate the indices.
So for a string like lions it's in an array here.
But if we're working with the string lions we would start with an index of 0 and generate I up until
we hit 4 0 1 2 3 4.
And once we hit 4 we're done.
And then we can use that index that I to access each character.
Or we could do it for an array which is what I'm doing here.
We have three items in here.
We start with index of 0 and we loop as long as the eye variable is less than the length of the array.
So let's try it up we'll make an array over here.
So if I have an array called exam scores it represents maybe the test scores of one student or of a
teacher who has multiple students.
These are all the scores.
It doesn't really matter.
It's a silly example either way.
If we wanted to print each score out we'll start with that we would need to iterate over this array
and generate an I or any variable in a for loop that starts at zero because the first element starts
at index 0 and then we want to go up until the end of that array but we don't want to go past it.
So we'll do four let I equals zero and we'll keep going while i is less than exam scores that length
not less than or equal to.
Because remember the length is always one more than the greatest index.
So we have one two three four five six elements.
But the last item the last element has an index of five.
So if we did less than or equal to the length which is six then at the last turn of the loop the last
iteration we would be accessing exam scores of six which is undefined.
So i is less than exam scores at length or we could do less than or equal to exam score stout length
minus one but that's longer.
So I like to do it this way and then we'll add one to each time and we'll start by just constant that
logging exam scores of I and we can also control that log I first.
Let's run it.
There we go.
So I starts at zero then one two three four five it stops at five because the next I it's going to be
six which is no longer less than the length because the length is six and six is not less than six.
And then we access using square brackets each individual element.
So we get ninety eight seventy seven eighty four and so on.
Now I'm gonna make an adjustment to this variable I'll be right back.
Okay.
So I made an adjustment.
Actually that's a lie.
I made a new variable called my students which now that I'm thinking about it is a little arrogant because
all of these students are Greek gods they're not actually my students.
Unfortunately I did have a serious obsession with Greek mythology as a kid.
So each student is an object we have an array each element is an object and they have a grade each and
a first name.
So why don't we start by just printing out zoos scored 86 Artemus scored ninety seven Harris scored
seventy two so we'll need to loop over the array for we can do I again let I equals zero.
This is a standard pattern to loop over an array we always start an index of zero in this we wanted
to go backwards in which case we would start with the last index and loop until we hit index of zero
but usually we go left to right.
So we'll go while I is less than my students that length and we'll add one to each time I plus plus
and then what I'm going to print out is a template literal so console that log and then back ticks I'll
put the first name in this line is going to get quite long if I don't make a separate variable because
I is just a number so if I print I that's going to be 0 1 2 in order to access first name for each one
of these I first have to go through my students of I will give me each object but if I just print out
the object that's not gonna get me where I want I also need to access dot first name or square bracket
first name.
So what I'm going to do is put this in its own variable each time through the loop I'll call this let
students equals my student of I.
So now student is going to be an object if we just start by counsel that logging student comment that
out.
Refresh the page.
My student is not defined by my students.
And there we go.
We're printing each object out because student is simply referencing each element in the array at the
appropriate index.
So now I want to access student dot first name and student debt grade.
So I'll do my back ticks and the pattern I'll follow is Apollo.
Got a 98 or scored 98 so student which is just a place holder variable each time through the loop.
Student first name and then outside of the dollar sign.
Curly braces but still in the back ticks scored and then another dollar sign.
Student dot grade save refresh.
There we go zoo scored eighty six.
It's hard to miss scored ninety seven and so on.
If you feel confident with looping through arrays at this point skip ahead.
Otherwise I'll do a few more examples and I'll actually start with looping through a string.
It's the exact same approach except instead of an array we're accessing a string using those indices
but we still start at zero.
I'll make a variable called Word.
It will start as stressed and I use const so it's going to stay as stressed.
Which is fine.
I'm just going to loop over it but I'm going to loop backwards.
So we could do the exact same loop we saw here but I think at this point you understand how that works.
We loop while i is less than that length of the array or the string in our case.
So to go backwards we'll write a for loop and instead of starting I at zero which would start with S.
The first character we want.
The last index which is going to be the length of the array or the length of the string in our case
word length minus one word length will give us 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8.
So the last index is 7 so we'll start with IE equal to 7.
I'm not going to hard code that because we could have a different string here that is 20 characters
and then we're going to loop while I is greater than or equal to zero.
Or we could also say greater than negative 1 but we want it to hit zero.
So greater than or equal to zero.
And then each time through we'll subtract one from I.
And then we can start by just console dialoguing.
I make sure that we get seven six five four three two one zero which we do.
And now instead we'll consider out log word of I refresh and I didn't work.
I planned this out.
It works but it combined the two S's.
As you can see here which is unfortunate because now you can't read what it spells but stressed spelled
backwards is deserts.
So we're now printing out each character in the string in reverse order.
And if we wanted to we could even make a new string entirely that holds the reversed word so we can
make a variable up here called let reversed word equals an empty string and then each time through here
we'll do reversed word.
Plus equals word of.
So we're starting with index of what is 7 at the beginning and 0 6.
Whatever this index is we take that letter and we added into reverse word which is empty.
So we start we add a d and then the loop goes again.
This time I is one less so we're adding an E and then an S and so on.
Let's make sure it works.
So at the end we will print out.
Actually why don't we just print out consoles out log reversed word each time right there refresh and
there we go.
D d e d s desk dessert dessert desserts and so I'll just print it out at the end and we have successfully
reversed a word awesome.
Okay one more really quick example.
Instead of printing things out we did something slightly different here.
We reversed a word into a new variable but why don't we try averaging all of the grades.
So in my students we have four students that each have a grade.
What we need to do is loop over all students for each one.
We need to sum the grades together.
So we need a variable to accumulate or to hold that sum.
And then after the loop is done we'll have a total and we need to divide it by.
In this case for the length of my students so we can keep this loop.
I'm just going to duplicate it come at the original out and instead of doing this here in constant logging
we need to add student dot grade to something.
Remember student is equal to each individual object because I'm doing my students of I.
Which gives me one of these objects.
Then the grade gives me that number.
So I'm going to make a variable and I need to make it outside the loop.
I'll call this total and it will start at zero.
If I put total equals zero in the loop.
If I move this line right here I will be re creating or reassigning total to zero.
Every time this loop runs so we'll never actually remember the previous result.
I need to have it up top where we actually can sum each grade together so student dot grade will do
total plus equals.
So add that grade to the total and then at the end will concert that log total and see what we get.
Three four five.
That seems appropriate and it seems like it makes sense.
That's not the average to get the average.
We need to divide not by 4.
We do need to divide by 4 but I don't want to hard code 4 because we could have 10 students in here.
So we'll divide by my students at length.
That's a number of students in there.
So my students that length will save refresh and the average is eighty six point two five.
There we go.
So we covered a lot of different problems in sort of different examples.
In this video but at its core we did the same thing every time whether it was a string or an array.
We start looping at zero and we loop until the last index adding 1 2.
Each time we use IE that number to access individual elements or individual characters.
In one case we went backwards but it's the same idea.
We start with the last index and we subtract one each time as long as we're greater than or equal to
zero.
So a really common pattern looping or iterating over a string an array or any index collection you generate
those indices.